[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: We have
an amazing "Beyond Belief"
program for you.
James Clarkson with us has
been a MUFON investigator
for more than 30 years,
and has studied more
than 2000 UFO reports.
He's also the author of
"Tell My Story, June Crain,
the Air Force and UFOs" and
"Westport UFO Crash Retrieval
Event."
Jim, good to have
you on the program.
>>JAMES CLARKSON: It's
a pleasure to be here.
George.
>>NOORY: How did you get
started as a MUFON investigator?
>>CLARKSON: Well, that's because
of actually being in the US Army
Military Police.
>>NOORY: Thank you for
serving, by the way.
>>CLARKSON: And
thank you as well.
>>NOORY: So since
you've been doing this,
you got involved more
and more in this, right?
>>CLARKSON: Oh, absolutely.
I was a plainclothes
military policeman
at Fort Lewis, Washington,
between 1974 and 1977.
And one night while
I was on duty,
I was chatting with
the desk sergeant
and he had a big Plexiglass
on his desk and phones,
but all these papers and things.
And I glanced down at a business
card that said National UFO
Reporting Center 206-722-3000.
And I thought, that's
kind of strange.
So I looked at
the desk sergeant,
and I said, Sarge, what is this?
And he said, that's
where we report UFOs.
>>NOORY: Peter
Davenport's organization.
>>CLARKSON: And it
did become-- he's
been a lifelong friend of mine.
He's been a friend and a man I
admire totally for many years.
>>NOORY: Very dedicated.
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: Now you wrote
this book about June Crain.
>>CLARKSON: Right.
>>NOORY: Tell us about June.
>>CLARKSON: Well, I started
doing UFO presentations
in public libraries at the
recommendation of my wife.
And in 1993, she asked me
to do a program at the Ocean
Shores, Washington Library, on
the Southwest Washington Coast.
And I went there, there
was 30 to 40 people there.
And when I was all done, basic
information about UFOs, history,
and whatnot, a very stern
looking elderly woman,
walked up to me, looked me
right in the eye, and she said,
you're right.
The government knows
all about UFOs,
and they're keeping it a secret.
And I said, well,
how do you know?
And she said, because
I worked there.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>CLARKSON: There
was no hesitancy.
So I said, please, tell me more.
And then she kind of looked
at me very wary, and she said.
I can't because they'll
come and arrest me.
And I think that she was
worried about me arresting her,
because I didn't
keep it a secret
that although I was in a
library talking about UFOs,
my regular day job, I was a
detective sergeant for a police
department in a nearby city.
>>NOORY: But she had
a signed obligation
form with the military.
>>CLARKSON: Yes, she did, a
non-disclosure agreement that
said that she could be sent to
prison or fined $10,000 if she
disclosed anything that she
saw or heard while she worked
at Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base in Dayton, Ohio.
>>NOORY: We've got a picture
of her obligation right there.
>>CLARKSON: That I believe
is her early notice, that
proves her employment.
But yes, I do have
a document that
shows her non-disclosure
agreement signed
by her at the time that she
left their employment in 1952.
>>NOORY: Did she take
secrets with her?
>>CLARKSON: Maybe some,
but it would have been
because she forgot to tell me.
>>NOORY: So the book itself is
pretty comprehensive, isn't it?
>>CLARKSON: It is based on
a series of conversations
that I had with her, because in
1993, she would not talk to me.
It took her four years to
decide to even talk to me.
And the only reason,
ironically, that she
talked to me is because the Air
Force published a book in 1997
that said Roswell, case closed.
So out of the blue, it was all
over CNN, a national news story.
And out of the blue,
I get a phone call,
and it's June on the phone.
I knew her voice.
I knew it couldn't
be anybody else.
And the first thing she said
is, it's a lie with a few--
>>NOORY: She was
incensed, wasn't she?
>>CLARKSON: She was very angry.
And she said, it's
the balloon lie.
It's the same lie that we
used when I worked there.
And I said, well, tell me more.
And this opened
up conversations.
And I'm not that slow.
I said, well, how soon
can I be at your house?
And so I started visiting
her, and we became friends.
And she showed me
her personal papers.
And I eventually
verified those papers
by contacting the
National Personnel Records
Center in Saint Louis.
>>NOORY: Oh, yeah.
>>CLARKSON: I got copies of
all of It, took me five tries.
>>NOORY: That ended up
burning down, by the way.
>>CLARKSON: Yes, that was one
of the excuses they gave me.
>>NOORY: What percent of
the things that she knew,
do you think she told you?
>>CLARKSON: That's hard to say.
I would say maybe--
I'd guess if I had to put a
number on it, I'd say a third.
There were things that
she didn't remember
and things that may have
slipped her mind over the years.
It was 50 years between the
events that are described.
And when she was
recalling them for me,
she was recalling those events
for me at the end of her life.
But she was telling me if she
couldn't remember something,
she said, I don't remember.
And if I asked her a question,
she would say, I don't know.
And that, to me, as an
investigator, is very important.
I like witnesses that
know what they don't know.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>CLARKSON: Not people
who know everything.
Those ones worry me.
>>NOORY: What didn't she
tell you, in your opinion?
>>CLARKSON: It's conceivable
that she had more than one
direct experience.
And I would've liked to have
known more about how she arrived
at telling me that
by the time she
left the employment
of the Air Force,
the Air Force had not one
crash-recovered UFO but three.
>>NOORY: Three?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: From where?
>>CLARKSON: She didn't know
the other two for sure.
We had Roswell.
She thought that Kingman,
Arizona, was a possibility.
And she really wasn't
sure about the third one.
>>NOORY: Maybe Cape
Girardeau, Missouri?
>>CLARKSON: That's conceivable.
>>NOORY: Interesting now.
There's a little piece of metal
that an officer showed her.
You found out about this.
What was it?
>>CLARKSON: That's one
of the favorite stories.
June is in her office.
And part of this story, you have
to think about the psychology
of the situation.
She's the only woman
in an all-male office
of military people,
engineers, scientists.
And she's an attractive
young woman, kind of witty,
and quick on the uptake.
>>NOORY: Very bubbly.
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
An officer comes into her
office, reaches into his pocket,
pulls out this piece
of metal, and says,
hey, June, you're a good worker.
Tear this up.
Get those scissors.
See what you can do.
And, of course,
she can't cut it.
She can't poke a hole in it.
She can't scratch it.
She wads it up into a ball,
and it weighs like nothing.
She lets it go,
and it springs back
to its original shape like
water with no wrinkles,
no evidence of being touched.
>>NOORY: I've heard that story.
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: It was her.
>>CLARKSON: I think she's
one of the people who
handled the memory metal.
Well, she asked this officer,
she said, what is this?
And he bends down, and he says
it's a piece of a spaceship.
She says, what is it really?
It's a piece of a spaceship.
And about that time, somebody
else walks through the area,
and he grabs it and sticks
it in his pocket and pretends
like he wasn't talking to her.
>>NOORY: Where do you think
that material is today?
>>CLARKSON: I wish I knew.
I wish that June had given
me a piece before she passed.
I don't know where it is.
>>NOORY: If you were to put
a lie detector test on June
at the time, would
she have passed.
>>CLARKSON: I believe she would
have without any hesitation,
based on my experience.
I'm also basing this on 30
years of interviewing witnesses,
suspects, victims, et cetera.
I don't pretend to be
a perfect lie detector,
but I have some experience
with figuring out when
people are making stuff up.
And I believe, as
I am sitting here,
that June was a
totally honest person.
>>NOORY: Now, was
there a pilot involved
who saw some things, bodies?
>>CLARKSON: One
of these stories,
she had several of
these key stories.
One of them was that she
knew a Master Sergeant who
was a crewman on a military
cargo aircraft that
flew into Wright-Patterson.
And they would have
coffee with these people.
They all had
security clearances.
So they're having
coffee with the pilot.
And it's one of those
weird conversations.
He's talking about flying
in with wreckage and bodies.
And everybody at the table
wants to know whether or not
the bodies were victims of
people that they might know.
He suddenly jumped and
looked at them and said.
You don't realize,
they're not human.
I'm not talking about pilots
or crewmen who died in a crash.
And then he went on
to describe them,
that they had bodies
like child-size,
with enlarged heads, et cetera.
>>NOORY: How many
different people.
Were involved in
this story, Jim?
>>CLARKSON: I'm not sure.
I don't know how
many people were
sitting in that room with her
when she talked to the pilot.
My sense was, it was a group
of people having coffee.
>>NOORY: There still must
be many of them alive.
>>CLARKSON: I don't know.
It would be stretching
it now, because we
are losing so many
of the witnesses,
if we haven't lost them already.
>>NOORY: You're
from the West Coast?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: You know about the
Westport, Washington, case
of '79?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: What happened there?
>>CLARKSON: I was a rookie
policeman in the year 1979,
hired by the City of
Aberdeen, Washington.
If I had taken the newspaper,
which I didn't, because I was--
>>NOORY: We have a clip
of that newspaper, too.
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: There it is.
>>CLARKSON: I would have seen
that headline on November 26
of 1979, and that would
have gotten my attention.
It's the first of
five news articles
on this particular event.
And what they're referring to is
the night before, November 25,
1979, at 10:50 PM, some kind of
object came down out of the sky
over Grays Harbor County,
headed for the area of Westport,
and specifically the
Elk River estuary.
And people started calling in.
I talked to dispatchers
in law enforcement,
because I was still
a police officer when
I was investigating this.
>>NOORY: What got
you involved in that?
>>CLARKSON: Well, this
was years later when
I had become a MUFON member.
>>NOORY: Uh-huh.
>>CLARKSON: So by then, I
was kind of like, OK, well,
what can I do to
establish myself in MUFON?
>>NOORY: Then you were
credentialed to do that, right?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
And also, because when I
first became a policeman,
I didn't dare talk
to my fellow officers
about my interest
in UFOs and aliens.
But after about three or four
years, I was established,
and I wasn't worried
about it anymore.
So I finally
started telling them
that I was interested
in this field.
And, of course, I got
tinfoil hats and all of that.
But they also started telling me
something crashed by Westport.
And when I went to the library,
they had a whole file on it,
because they'd been asked
about it so many times.
And I started with those
five newspaper articles.
And that gave me all the leads I
needed to open an investigation.
>>NOORY: What other
major witnesses
reported what they saw?
>>CLARKSON: Well,
when I dug into it,
I found a lady in Central
Park named Stella Crusseu.
I was especially
interested in her
because she appeared
to have almost a--
I don't know this
for sure, but it
seemed like she had a psychic
connection, because she recalled
watching a TV program, having
it interrupted by something
going across the sky, across
two different windows--
>>NOORY: On her television?
>>CLARKSON: No, it was in the
windows behind the television,
facing the outdoors.
And for her, it was almost
like time slowed down.
And she described
a vehicle to me.
>>NOORY: There it is.
>>CLARKSON: Exactly.
>>NOORY: Just like that, right?
>>CLARKSON: That's an artist's
representation of the craft
that she saw going
across the sky.
>>NOORY: It was not a meteor?
>>CLARKSON: I don't see how
it could be with windows.
And the thing was, she
made interesting comments.
Her comment was, I kept
thinking, they're in trouble.
They're going down.
So it was almost like she picked
up a distress call in her mind.
I mean, I don't
know that for sure,
but that's how it sounded to me.
>>NOORY: Who was Allan Reymer?
>>CLARKSON: Ahh.
Allan Reymer was
the most interesting
of all the witnesses.
And in fact, I
have a development
that I'll mention briefly
that just happened yesterday,
as a matter of fact, in
connection with Allan Reymer.
He was a scientist employed by
the State Department of Natural
Resources, and he would
do public outreach
on all the marine life in
Puget Sound up in Washington.
He was a very popular
public speaker.
Well, he wrote a
report based upon
not what he saw on Sunday night
when the object came down,
but what he saw on Monday night.
>>NOORY: Now we
have a testimony,
video where you're
talking to him,
and he's describing the
lights that he saw in the sky.
>>CLARKSON: Exactly.
>>ALLAN REYMER: From that
point, I headed home to Westport
on the Westport.
Highway, Highway 105, and it
was a very, very nice night,
very nice, cold evening.
And I approached the
Johns River delta area.
I had two cars in front of me.
I did not know who was
in them at that time,
but as we headed down the
hill into the delta area,
I could see a series
of lights in a row
that were approaching
us, the group of cars,
coming in from the
southwest over the hills.
And so.
It was very intriguing.
The big light in the
front was very bright.
And the lights in the back were
probably a quarter to a third
smaller, and they were
coming towards us.
And so unbeknownst
to me at that time,
the two cars in front of
me also saw these lights,
and we pulled over
simultaneously
on the side of the road.
And we got out to
observe the lights.
And I stayed by
my car initially.
And the lady with the baby in
front of me stayed by her car.
And then the elderly couple
stayed by their car, too.
And we observed the lights.
And at some point in
time, we got together,
standing next to the cars, to
talk about what we were seeing,
trying to figure out what
it is we were seeing.
And as we're standing there,
looking at the lights,
the lights all got
together as a group,
much like a mother duck
rounding up her ducklings,
all around the big light.
And we were talking,
at the time,
I remember talking
about why did they stop,
and what are they looking for.
It was like they had a mission.
And so we watched them there.
And they revolved-- and
revolved is kind of an odd word.
They moved around the big light
in a very erratic motions.
It was at unusual angles.
And they moved around
this bright white light.
And they stayed.
It was they were-- the
big light was motionless,
and the smaller lights
all moved out and about,
not very far away
from the big light.
And then, at a
certain point there, I
would say the
whole thing went on
for a couple of
minutes at least.
They all paused, and then
individually, the smaller lights
pulled away from the
major light at odd angles,
and then literally shot north
and out over Grays Harbor.
And then the big light
followed at the end.
But they went at an
unbelievably high rate of speed.
There was no noise.
>>NOORY: What great
testimony, Jim.
>>CLARKSON: Exactly,
and he is completely
consistent to this
day, because I
spoke to him just three days
ago, prior to this program.
And we kind of
renewed a friendship.
And he also mentioned
in his report
that he had seen a UFO prior to
this a long time ago, in 1968.
And he even told me what month.
He said, I reported it to
APRO In November of '68.
I called David Marler at the
National UFO Historical Records
Center.
He looked it up for me while I
was communicating on the phone,
and he found the
report right away.
And all of the details matched.
Allan Reymer is a completely
consistent, credible witness,
and he never had a
problem being identified.
He said, I don't care
if you use my name.
I know what I saw.
>>NOORY: And we have a still
based on what Allan saw.
Let's take a look at that.
>>CLARKSON: Exactly.
He drew that.
That's his diagram as
part of the MOFUN report
that I completed at the time
of the original investigation.
>>NOORY: Now, Allan
also described
what he saw, couldn't
have been made.
And then what
happens afterwards?
>>CLARKSON: Well, the way that
he described the objects leaving
the area, he said they moved
away faster than anything
he has ever seen fly in the sky.
>>NOORY: Let's take a look.
>>INTERVIEWER:
Have you ever seen
any kind of aircraft
or anything else
in the air that moved like that.
>>ALLAN REYMER:
No, never. uh-uh.
And initially, we talked about
the fact, the four of us,
of course, the
baby couldn't talk.
The four of us talked about,
could it be helicopters?
And then we all
said, and we realize,
we're not hearing any noise.
And it was a gorgeous
night, and so there
was no wind of any kind.
There was, as far as I
know, it's a November night.
None of us had jackets on.
None of us recall
saying, boy, I'm chilly,
I'm going to get back
in the car or anything.
So it was a very nice night.
And I remember I could
see a long distance
as they were coming
towards us over the delta.
So we could see
them coming from--
there was no distraction of any
kind as they came towards us.
And then, because the
smaller ones were maneuvering
in such erratic, almost
right-angled movements
from the main light, it was
not helicopter-type activity.
And then the rate at which they
departed from the delta area
was almost like Star Wars.
It's just the way
they just shot off
and they took off individually.
And they went, they
didn't follow each other.
They just took off
at weird angles
to the northwest and northeast.
And there was no rhyme or
reason as they shot off.
And then the main
light basically
went north and directly
out over the bay.
>>INTERVIEWER: What
happened afterwards?
>>ALLAN REYMER: After
that, we talked.
I remember we're talking
about what did we see.
And we agreed, we didn't
know what we were looking at.
And so the first
thing I decided to do
when I got back to Westport
was to call the police station
and report it.
And the dispatcher there, I
remember this really clearly,
saying this is bizarre.
We're getting so many calls that
just came in a few moments ago
from the Grayland area.
So Grayland residents had
to have been reporting it
just before we did,
because I'm probably,
where I was from my car from
home, about 20 minutes away.
So the dispatcher
said, Wow, we're
getting a lot of
calls about this,
and took my name and number.
And then, I was
listening to my radio,
and I don't remember the
radio the primary radio
station in 1979, but I do
remember the radio station
reporting.
We're getting our
calls about a lot
of lights coming in off the bay,
heading north over Grays Harbor.
>>INTERVIEWER: And did you ever
see any news coverage of this
or hear any other stories?
>>ALLAN REYMER: I remember
seeing one newspaper story
that the McChord Air Force Base
was doing helicopter maneuvers
or something over the
Grays Harbor area.
And I've seen lots and lots
of helicopters in my days.
And I've traveled
all over the world,
and seen lots of different
kinds of helicopters.
This was not
helicopter-type maneuvers.
>>NOORY: Jim, what finally
happened to this case?
>>CLARKSON: Well, after I
went through Allan Raymer's
testimony, and with the
other witnesses that I had,
I wrote a short book about it.
I had a complete report,
and there was, to this day,
I don't know exactly what it
was, but I know what it wasn't.
And it wasn't what
the County said.
The emergency service
director was pushing very hard
that this was a helicopter
with a faulty exhaust manifold,
and somehow the oil
caught fire, et cetera.
I called commercial
helicopter pilots, and I said,
this is what was seen.
This is what they're saying.
Is that possible?
And they all laughed
at me at first.
They thought it was hysterical.
They said, you're not going
to catch the oil on fire.
It's designed not to catch fire
until like 600 degrees or so.
And if you started losing
any quantity of oil,
you would crash.
Well, no helicopters
or aircraft were ever
reported missing
from that night.
>>NOORY: And you
would have known that,
>>CLARKSON: Yes, there was an
official US Air Force search
number placed on the incident.
I believe it was Scott
Air Force Base that
was in charge of coordinating
the search, the records.
>>NOORY: And that's out
of Illinois, isn't it?
>>CLARKSON: I believe so.
>>NOORY: It is.
>>CLARKSON: But
they were doing--
they were assigning search
numbers for missing aircraft
anywhere in the country.
>>NOORY: How many other
important UFO cases
have you investigated?
>>CLARKSON: During the time that
I was a member of MUFON for 30
years, I would say around 2,000.
And then I occasionally
would pick up cases
from the National UFO
Reporting Center referred
by Peter Davenport, and
then miscellaneous cases
that I've bumped into
where people would call me
because they knew
that I was someone
who was intensely interested.
>>NOORY: Dramatic.
Now, this helicopter pilot, what
kind of experience did he have?
>>CLARKSON: I believe
that one was--
>>NOORY: It's
another case, right?
>>CLARKSON: I had
a career in 2012--
I got that report from a man
in Castle Rock, Washington,
who was a recently retired
career helicopter pilot,
both military and commercial.
And he was deeply troubled.
One night he went into
town to pick up something
at a drugstore.
Driving home, on the final
stretch before his house,
he looked up, and he saw
three swirling spheres
that had very precise edges.
They were equidistant apart--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>CLARKSON: --and swirling
purple orange light.
Except that he
kept saying, like,
I've heard from other
witnesses, that there's
something about this light
that isn't like anything else
that he had ever seen.
He told me, he said, I've
never seen an aircraft that
had a light like that on it.
And he was actually scared.
He stopped in the
road because he
was afraid to drive under
these three huge spheres.
>>NOORY: Now, there
was a federal agent
who had an episode too, right?
>>CLARKSON: That's
in July of 2014.
>>NOORY: God, you
remember all these dates.
>>CLARKSON: I think that's why
Peter Davenport and I get along.
>>NOORY: Yeah, he's
meticulous when it comes to--
>>CLARKSON: I try
to be meticulous.
Maybe not as much as him, but--
>>NOORY: Well, what happened
with this federal agent?
>>CLARKSON: He was on duty
in Vancouver, Washington,
and it's the middle of
the day, perfect weather.
And with no warning, he sees
a classic disk-shaped flying
saucer starred across the sky.
He described how when it banked,
he could see the sunlight
gleaming on it.
And of course, he said, I went
through the mental checklist.
No propellers, no jet
engines, no wings.
>>NOORY: No sound.
>>CLARKSON: No sound.
And then he tells me, he says,
but that's not the weird part.
And, of course, I asked
him, what's the weird part.
He said it looked as if
someone drew a line in the air.
And as this saucer
crossed the line,
you couldn't see it anymore.
>>NOORY: Like it went
into another dimension.
>>CLARKSON: Or it cloaked.
Take your pick.
>>NOORY: Or it cloaked.
What do you think?
>>CLARKSON: Well,
because it was reported.
So soon after the
event, like within days.
I got the radar
data from the FAA.
And a friend of mine, a
NOAA-- former NOAA weatherman,
unpacked the data,
put it on a map.
In the same area of the sky
where he saw the UFO disappear,
for two passes of
the radar, there
was a solid object picked
up by the radar that
had no transponder.
So that means if it was a
civilian aircraft or even
a military aircraft,
it's completely illegal,
because they're near an
international airport
and a big city.
And you cannot fly
without a transponder.
>>NOORY: And they would
not have flown without one.
>>CLARKSON: No, they would not.
And then he's standing there
with his jaw hanging down
thinking, what have I just seen?
And here comes an
F-15 roaring out
of the direction of the
Portland International Airport,
in the same direction
that the UFO went.
>>NOORY: Tracking it.
>>CLARKSON: Apparently, because
we had-- its radar track
was plainly visible
on the radar data.
>>NOORY: There were some mill
workers on a fishing trip.
What happened to them?
>>CLARKSON: This is one
of my favorite cases,
although it's
strictly anecdotal.
This gentleman was
a former millwright,
which meant that he'd
done a career installing
large machines in lumber mills.
He claimed that in umapine,
Oregon, one afternoon in 1983,
he and his buddy are
walking along the road.
And all at once, there's
nobody else out there,
the birds are singing, the
insects are clicking away.
And all at once, everything goes
absolutely flat, dead silent.
And while he's standing
there with his friend,
they're thinking,
this is really odd,
now the really odd part happens.
Some kind of huge vehicle,
device, something,
comes along just above the
roadway, right next to them,
and they're afraid that they're
going to be run over by it.
>>NOORY: Wow.
>>CLARKSON: And the way he
likened this, though, he said,
imagine that you were standing
on a runway at a major airport
and a 747 taxied
right next to you
with the wing above you, the
huge tires, the big engines, all
that, and you have to
step out of the way
to keep from being
flattened by this.
Only you can't see it.
you know it's there,
because at the very edges
there's kind of
a blurry outline.
But if you look straight
at it, you can't see it.
It has some kind of camouflage.
I see, that's all--
the thing went on by them.
They weren't injured.
But they both
promised each other
they would never talk about this
because it scared them to death.
It made absolutely no sense.
And they're completely
convinced that it was real.
And to be honest, after
talking to him for a while,
I think it was real, too.
Whatever happens,
I was going to say, Jim,
after all these testimonies,
you have to come
to some conclusion
that these things are happening.
>>CLARKSON: I think they are.
It's estimated there
is one high-quality UFO
sighting somewhere in the world,
every hour of every single day
of what I would call a TRUFO,
a true UFO, where you have
a high-quality witness combined
with a high strangeness event.
>>NOORY: Is it like disclosure
with these witnesses,
telling all?
>>CLARKSON: I think
it helps them.
And I think it's also good.
I think that what I
provide because of my law
enforcement background is, first
off, I know how to interview.
And secondly, if I
tell somebody I'm not
going to divulge your name,
I don't divulge their name.
You don't break a confidence.
>>NOORY: Is your work
easier now that it
seems like Congress is getting
a little closer to disclosure?
>>CLARKSON: Maybe.
>>NOORY: Or is it harder?
>>CLARKSON: Most of these
things cut both ways.
It's sort of like two steps
forward, one step back.
There is more disclosure now.
They've admitted
that UAPs are real.
>>NOORY: They don't
know what they are--
>>CLARKSON: Right.
>>NOORY: --they say.
>>CLARKSON: Or
they're supposedly--
if they get near
a military base,
though, there are always drones.
They call them drones now.
We don't-- They don't say, oh,
we had a UAP over our top secret
facility.
Oh, these are drones,
but they don't
say who put the drones up
there or how big they were
or what exactly they look like.
>>NOORY: Is there a division
within the government that
looks at this possibility
of disclosure?
>>CLARKSON: Oh, I
think there's always
been a division in government.
I think there's been a form
of cold war going on ever
since Roswell, and maybe
before, where we have
factions within the government.
And I think it also happens
because over time people
retire, new people
are hired, people
with different philosophies
or perspectives.
And so there's an
undercurrent of people
who would like to disclose.
And there still is
a group, though,
that wants to block
disclosure at all costs.
>>NOORY: What does
UAP 1 compare to.
UAP 2.
>>CLARKSON: Unidentified
aerial phenomena is UAP 1.
That's what we were
originally told
was the new correct
parlance for UFO.
Then it became UAP 2, which
is unidentified anomalous
phenomena.
And this has had a very
strange and a positive effect
on me directly.
I am now in demand at
paranormal conferences, what
used to be called
a ghost conference,
they will now want a UFO
presenter in the mix.
>>NOORY: And it gives it that
scientific flavor, doesn't it?
>>CLARKSON: Yes, it does.
But I think it also--
what it provides for people
is what I think a lot of us
suspect.
We may not have a total
explanation for what's going on,
but it's not any one thing.
It's not nuts and bolts
UFO with little green men.
There's something more
that's almost a mental
or a spiritual phenomenon
connected with this.
For one thing, the best
witnesses frequently
turn out to be repeaters.
And they--
>>NOORY: What do
you mean by that?
>>CLARKSON: They
will have experiences
throughout their life.
>>NOORY: Over and over.
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>CLARKSON: And then
there's the fact
that you can have five people
present for a UFO encounter,
and three of them will tell
you that they didn't see it.
And the other two will
be adamant that they did.
>>NOORY: Are they connected
to the paranormal?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
It's a higher form than us.
Further along the
evolutionary scale.
I always ask the question, well,
what would we be like in 10,000
years or 100,000 years if we
don't destroy ourselves with
overpopulation or whatever?
>>NOORY: What are you
currently investigating, Jim?
>>CLARKSON: Well, currently
what I'm involved in right
now is trying to
support something
that I mentioned briefly, which
is the National UFO Historical
Records Center, That is being
worked on by David Marler
in Rio Rancho.
I'm also working on a
case, a very famous case,
involving a police officer,
a deputy sheriff in Portage
County, Ohio, from April 17,
1966, who chased a UFO along
with his partner and at
least two other officers.
There were hundreds
of civilian witnesses.
He chased a UFO
for over 80 miles.
And because of the way Blue Book
reacted and the media reacted
and the public reacted, he
had a nervous breakdown,
and his life was ruined.
Was never the same.
>>NOORY: Have you
witnessed a UAP/UFO?
>>CLARKSON: Oddly
enough, would have
said no up until last November.
And this is a very funny story.
But, as I'm sitting
here, it's real.
>>NOORY: God's truth.
>>CLARKSON: Yes, God's truth.
I was at a ghost conference.
I was in Port
Gamble, Washington.
It was a Saturday morning.
And I went into the men's
room on the ground floor
of the old theater building.
>>NOORY: You saw a
UFO in the men's room?
>>CLARKSON: No, I saw a ghost.
That's what startles me.
I wish I could tell you
I saw an alien or a UFO.
But I was in a restroom
that was not very large.
There were, like, 3--
2 urinals, a sink, and a toilet.
And it's all along one wall.
There's a window up high behind
my shoulder, sun coming through.
There is nobody else
in that room except me.
>>NOORY: And the ghost.
>>CLARKSON: Well, that happens.
I'm taking care of myself.
And I can see my silhouette
very clearly outlined
on the wall, a shadow,
my shadow, very precise.
And all at once,
with no warning,
a shadow of another
person, taller
and broader shoulder
than me, walks up,
and the shadow is
superimposed on mine.
And I am really startled.
I turn to the left.
I turn to the right.
There's nobody there.
>>NOORY: Weird.
>>CLARKSON: So I'm
thinking, I'm going
to move this along
and get out of here.
I'm washing my hands.
And this is the really odd part.
I guess many cases, encounters
have an objective part
and a subjective part.
I believe that I heard
a voice in my head.
It was not my voice.
I don't know whose voice it was.
I heard a male voice
very calmly say, brother,
you are welcome here.
>>NOORY: In the men's room.
>>CLARKSON: In the men's room.
I know, it sounds crazy.
At that point, I
thought, well, thanks.
And I'm out of there.
I went upstairs,
and I told the man
in charge of the conference
what had happened.
And he said, by the
way, Port Gamble
is supposed to be
the most haunted
city in Washington State.
It's an interesting place.
I told him about
it, and he said,
you're not the
first person who had
a sighting in the men's room.
And for some reason, it's
always the men's room
and not the women's room.
>>NOORY: And it's the
same ghost, probably.
>>CLARKSON: Apparently.
So a couple of weeks
later, he does ghost tours.
He told my story.
One of the people on
the tour, this one man,
started looking pale and upset.
>>NOORY: Happened to him.
>>CLARKSON: Yep.
He'd just been in there.
He saw a full form
figure that scared him.
And he got out of
there really quick.
So I don't know what
to make of this.
This is a new world for me.
>>NOORY: You're the
first person I've ever
heard tell a story about
a ghost in a bathroom.
>>CLARKSON: Yeah,
I'm not surprised.
>>NOORY: Where do you think
all this is going to take us
in the next 5 or 10 years.
>>CLARKSON: Well, I'm
always dreaming for a day
that we broaden our
consciousness to the point
that we become the Terrans,
the people of Earth,
that noisy, squabbling,
unpredictable group
of human beings.
And we quit fighting each other.
That's what my hope for is.
I don't know that
that's going to happen,
but I believe that studying
this, embracing this mystery,
is part of how we get there.
>>NOORY: Are we getting to
the answers we want, Jim?
>>CLARKSON: I think we are.
I'm praying that we are.
It's very important
that we keep the faith
and keep being positive.
>>NOORY: Are you going
to keep investigating?
>>CLARKSON: I'll keep
investigating till I take
the ultimate investigation.
>>NOORY: Of all the cases you've
been investigating, all of them,
which one stands out
the most for you?
>>CLARKSON: A couple of the ones
that we've talked about here.
But the one that meant the
most to me was June Crain.
And the reason is, although--
well, actually, she did
have a UFO sighting in 1975
that I did not include
in the book originally,
because I just wasn't sure.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>CLARKSON: But it was a
structured vehicle, again,
over the Columbia River.
Only she was on
the Portland side.
I don't know what it is
about Portland and Vancouver,
but I've had a whole bunch
of remarkable reports.
But June is the most
important one to me,
because I got a
picture of her life.
Even if she had
never mentioned UFOs,
I got to hear about history.
And that's the part that
I love in all of this.
About the Air
Force in its birth,
the beginning of
Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.
And I also heard her
story, because she
was a professional
woman who was very
proud of her work for the
United States Government.
>>NOORY: Did you believe her?
>>CLARKSON: Yes.
And she gave me her papers.
She was consistent.
I believe she was truthful.
But she also was a woman who
was torn by her situation.
She got married.
They had a son.
The husband, he was one of the
security police at the base.
And he wanted to
leave the military,
and he wanted her
to go with him.
And June had to leave a
job that she dearly loved.
And then a few years later, he
was killed in a strange traffic
accident in Portland,
which I verified
through newspaper clippings.
>>NOORY: Strange indeed.
>>CLARKSON: It was strange.
And she looked
back over her life.
>>NOORY: Jim, thanks for
being on Beyond Belief.
>>CLARKSON: Thank you very
much for this opportunity.
It means a lot.
>>NOORY: The story of June
Crain is absolutely incredible.
And Jim has put it into a book.
Get it, because it'll tell you
a story that is unbelievable.
Thanks for watching
Beyond Belief.
[MUSIC PLAYING]